README.md, before:

# ValidatedTextField

A powerful, customizable text field component for iOS with built-in validation, formatting, and comprehensive styling support.

## Features

- **Input Validation**: Built-in validator system with support for custom validation rules
- **Input Formatting**: Real-time text formatting with cursor position management
- **Accessory System**: Extensible accessory views (leading/trailing) for additional UI elements
- **Styling**: Comprehensive styling system with state-based theming
- **Pure UIKit**: Zero external dependencies - built entirely with UIKit
- **UIKit Integration**: Seamless integration with existing UIKit applications

## Requirements

- iOS 12.0+
- Swift 5.9+
- Xcode 14.0+

## Installation

### Swift Package Manager

Add the following dependency to your `Package.swift` file:

```swift
dependencies: [
    .package(url: "https://github.com/zhuolingzhao007/ValidatedTextField.git", from: "1.0.0")
]
```

Or add it directly in Xcode:
1. Go to File > Add Packages...
2. Enter the package URL: `https://github.com/zhuolingzhao007/ValidatedTextField.git`
3. Select the version you want to use

## Usage

### Basic Usage

```swift
import ValidatedTextField

let textField = ValidatedTextField()

// Set placeholder
textField.placeholder = "Enter your email"

// Configure validation
textField.strategy = ValidationStrategy(
    validator: createValidator {
        // Email validation logic
        Validator { input in
            let emailRegex = "[A-Z0-9a-z._%+-]+@[A-Za-z0-9.-]+\\.[A-Za-z]{2,64}"
            let emailPredicate = NSPredicate(format:"SELF MATCHES %@", emailRegex)
            return emailPredicate.evaluate(with: input) ? .valid : .invalid(message: "Invalid email format")
        }
    }
)

// Add to your view
view.addSubview(textField)
```

### Validation State Observation

```swift
// Observe validation state changes
textField.onValidationChanged = { state in
    switch state {
    case .valid:
        print("Input is valid")
    case .invalid(let message):
        print("Validation error: \(message)")
    case .none:
        print("No validation applied")
    }
}
```

### Custom Styling

```swift
textField.configureStyle { builder in
    builder
        .textColor(.black)
        .placeholderColor(.gray)
        .borderColor(.blue, for: .editing)
        .borderColor(.red, for: .invalid)
        .cornerRadius(8)
        .borderWidth(1)
}
```

## Architecture

### Core Components

- **ValidatedTextField**: Main UIView component
- **ValidationStrategy**: Combines formatting and validation logic
- **InputFormatter**: Handles text formatting and cursor positioning
- **InputValidator**: Protocol for validation logic
- **AccessoryPlugin**: Extensible accessory view system
- **StyleEngine**: State-based styling system

### Validation System

The validation system supports:
- Custom validation functions
- Builder pattern for combining validators
- Logical operators (AND, OR, NOT)
- Real-time and on-commit validation triggers

### Formatting System

- Real-time text formatting
- Cursor position management
- Support for complex formatting rules (phone numbers, credit cards, etc.)

## Dependencies

None - Pure UIKit implementation with zero external dependencies.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

Refactor style engine to support generic component styles
Replaces the previous StyleEngine and StyleBuilder with generic versions (ComponentStyle, ComponentStyleBuilder, and StyleEngine) that support arbitrary patch and state types. Updates ValidatedTextField to use the new typealiases for text field-specific styling. The README and AGENTS.md are updated to reflect the new style API, and Xcode workspace files are added for development.

README.md, after:

# ValidatedTextField

A powerful, customizable text field component for iOS with built-in validation, formatting, and comprehensive styling support.

## Features

- **Input Validation**: Built-in validator system with support for custom validation rules
- **Input Formatting**: Real-time text formatting with cursor position management
- **Accessory System**: Extensible accessory views (leading/trailing) for additional UI elements
- **Styling**: Comprehensive styling system with state-based theming
- **Pure UIKit**: Zero external dependencies - built entirely with UIKit
- **UIKit Integration**: Seamless integration with existing UIKit applications

## Requirements

- iOS 12.0+
- Swift 5.9+
- Xcode 14.0+

## Installation

### Swift Package Manager

Add the following dependency to your `Package.swift` file:

```swift
dependencies: [
    .package(url: "https://github.com/zhuolingzhao007/ValidatedTextField.git", from: "1.0.0")
]
```

Or add it directly in Xcode:
1. Go to File > Add Packages...
2. Enter the package URL: `https://github.com/zhuolingzhao007/ValidatedTextField.git`
3. Select the version you want to use

## Usage

### Basic Usage

```swift
import ValidatedTextField

let textField = ValidatedTextField()

// Set placeholder
textField.placeholder = "Enter your email"

// Configure validation
textField.strategy = ValidationStrategy(
    validator: createValidator {
        // Email validation logic
        Validator { input in
            let emailRegex = "[A-Z0-9a-z._%+-]+@[A-Za-z0-9.-]+\\.[A-Za-z]{2,64}"
            let emailPredicate = NSPredicate(format:"SELF MATCHES %@", emailRegex)
            return emailPredicate.evaluate(with: input) ? .valid : .invalid(message: "Invalid email format")
        }
    }
)

// Add to your view
view.addSubview(textField)
```

### Validation State Observation

```swift
// Observe validation state changes
textField.onValidationChanged = { state in
    switch state {
    case .valid:
        print("Input is valid")
    case .invalid(let message):
        print("Validation error: \(message)")
    case .none:
        print("No validation applied")
    }
}
```

### Custom Styling

```swift
textField.configureStyle { builder in
    builder
        .textColor(.black)
        .placeholderColor(.gray)
        .cornerRadius(8)
        .borderWidth(1)

    builder.onInteraction(.editing) { patch in
        patch.borderColor = .blue
    }

    builder.onValidation(.invalid) { patch in
        patch.borderColor = .red
    }
}
```

## Architecture

### Core Components

- **ValidatedTextField**: Main UIView component
- **ValidationStrategy**: Combines formatting and validation logic
- **InputFormatter**: Handles text formatting and cursor positioning
- **InputValidator**: Protocol for validation logic
- **AccessoryPlugin**: Extensible accessory view system
- **StyleEngine**: State-based styling system

### Validation System

The validation system supports:
- Custom validation functions
- Builder pattern for combining validators
- Logical operators (AND, OR, NOT)
- Real-time and on-commit validation triggers

### Formatting System

- Real-time text formatting
- Cursor position management
- Support for complex formatting rules (phone numbers, credit cards, etc.)

## Dependencies

None - Pure UIKit implementation with zero external dependencies.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
